 As part of MIT course 6S099, Artificial General Intelligence,
 I've gotten the chance to sit down with Max Tegmark.
 He is a professor here at MIT.
 He's a physicist, spent a large part of his career
 studying the mysteries of our cosmological universe.
 But he's also studied and delved into the beneficial
 possibilities and the existential risks
 of artificial intelligence.
 Amongst many other things, he is the cofounder
 of the Future of Life Institute, author of two books,
 both of which I highly recommend.
 First, Our Mathematical Universe.
 Second is Life 3.0.
 He's truly an out of the box thinker and a fun personality,
 so I really enjoy talking to him.
 If you'd like to see more of these videos in the future,
 please subscribe and also click the little bell icon
 to make sure you don't miss any videos.
 Also, Twitter, LinkedIn, agi.mit.edu
 if you wanna watch other lectures
 or conversations like this one.
 Better yet, go read Max's book, Life 3.0.
 Chapter seven on goals is my favorite.
 It's really where philosophy and engineering come together
 and it opens with a quote by Dostoevsky.
 The mystery of human existence lies not in just staying alive
 but in finding something to live for.
 Lastly, I believe that every failure rewards us
 with an opportunity to learn
 and in that sense, I've been very fortunate
 to fail in so many new and exciting ways
 and this conversation was no different.
 I've learned about something called
 radio frequency interference, RFI, look it up.
 Apparently, music and conversations
 from local radio stations can bleed into the audio
 that you're recording in such a way
 that it almost completely ruins that audio.
 It's an exceptionally difficult sound source to remove.
 So, I've gotten the opportunity to learn
 how to avoid RFI in the future during recording sessions.
 I've also gotten the opportunity to learn
 how to use Adobe Audition and iZotope RX 6
 to do some noise, some audio repair.
 Of course, this is an exceptionally difficult noise
 to remove.
 I am an engineer.
 I'm not an audio engineer.
 Neither is anybody else in our group
 but we did our best.
 Nevertheless, I thank you for your patience
 and I hope you're still able to enjoy this conversation.
 Do you think there's intelligent life
 out there in the universe?
 Let's open up with an easy question.
 I have a minority view here actually.
 When I give public lectures, I often ask for a show of hands
 who thinks there's intelligent life out there somewhere else
 and almost everyone put their hands up
 and when I ask why, they'll be like,
 oh, there's so many galaxies out there, there's gotta be.
 But I'm a numbers nerd, right?
 So when you look more carefully at it,
 it's not so clear at all.
 When we talk about our universe, first of all,
 we don't mean all of space.
 We actually mean, I don't know,
 you can throw me the universe if you want,
 it's behind you there.
 It's, we simply mean the spherical region of space
 from which light has a time to reach us so far
 during the 14.8 billion year,
 13.8 billion years since our Big Bang.
 There's more space here but this is what we call a universe
 because that's all we have access to.
 So is there intelligent life here
 that's gotten to the point of building telescopes
 and computers?
 My guess is no, actually.
 The probability of it happening on any given planet
 is some number we don't know what it is.
 And what we do know is that the number can't be super high
 because there's over a billion Earth like planets
 in the Milky Way galaxy alone,
 many of which are billions of years older than Earth.
 And aside from some UFO believers,
 there isn't much evidence
 that any superduran civilization has come here at all.
 And so that's the famous Fermi paradox, right?
 And then if you work the numbers,
 what you find is that if you have no clue
 what the probability is of getting life on a given planet,
 so it could be 10 to the minus 10, 10 to the minus 20,
 or 10 to the minus two, or any power of 10
 is sort of equally likely
 if you wanna be really open minded,
 that translates into it being equally likely
 that our nearest neighbor is 10 to the 16 meters away,
 10 to the 17 meters away, 10 to the 18.
 By the time you get much less than 10 to the 16 already,
 we pretty much know there is nothing else that close.
 And when you get beyond 10.
 Because they would have discovered us.
 Yeah, they would have been discovered as long ago,
 or if they're really close,
 we would have probably noted some engineering projects
 that they're doing.
 And if it's beyond 10 to the 26 meters,
 that's already outside of here.
 So my guess is actually that we are the only life in here
 that's gotten the point of building advanced tech,
 which I think is very,
 puts a lot of responsibility on our shoulders, not screw up.
 I think people who take for granted
 that it's okay for us to screw up,
 have an accidental nuclear war or go extinct somehow
 because there's a sort of Star Trek like situation out there
 where some other life forms are gonna come and bail us out
 and it doesn't matter as much.
 I think they're leveling us into a false sense of security.
 I think it's much more prudent to say,
 let's be really grateful
 for this amazing opportunity we've had
 and make the best of it just in case it is down to us.
 So from a physics perspective,
 do you think intelligent life,
